---
dg-publish: true
---

I thought this was great advice from a random dude on Reddit,^[[What was your study plan for CCNA 200-301 ? : r/ccna](https://www.reddit.com/r/ccna/comments/14ohsa8/comment/jqdjk04/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)] ^[[StayStruggling (u/StayStruggling) - Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/user/StayStruggling/)] and I wanted to make sure it had a place to live in posterity.

>  I did not write this, though I've cleaned up the formatting and and may have made changes to make it more applicable to me, but I don't remember 100%. Small changes if any.

1. Taking notes isn't necessary and is the slowest way to learn. It is not wrong it is just the slowest method. I think you should take the time maybe a few days or a week or so to **learn how to learn**. To solve this quickly for you find methods that work for you. What works for me is using the **[[Pomodoro Technique|Pomodoro method]]** to study in blocks with a short break in between and then when prepping for the exam I use the **Anki method (flashcards) as well as spaced repetition** to memorise the correct answers and if I keep getting a particular question wrong I go over that one specific question more frequently like every day until I can recall the correct answer with more days in between going over that flashcard. Also with **questions I get wrong I also do light research to understand what the correct answer is and why.**
2. Watch any two sources of a video course covering CCNA 200-301 once each watching them at 2X speed without pausing. Pausing slows down the process and the material will click later once you start labbing. I chose CBT Nuggets and Neil's course from Udemy. 3-4 hours in real time per day split over 2 weeks and you can finish both video courses in that time to comprehend what you've learned better. At this stage dont bother at all with reading text books because you can increase the speed to consume the content watching videos. With video content it uses more senses (auditory and visual) so it is easier to comprehend the information.
3. Do labs for 4 hours every day for 2-3 weeks. 3-4 hours minimum of pure study time not including breaks. **I chose the Pomodoro method with 5-15 minute breaks every 45 to 1 hour of pure study time**. Packet Tracer is free but you will need to find the lab exercises yourself. Boson NetSim on the otherhand costs but has the lab exercises included and just makes the experience of labbing that much more simpler. I prefer Boson NetSim but Packet Tracer is just as comparable.
4. At this stage, you will spend up 2-3 weeks for 3-4 hours per day of pure study time going through Boson ExSim mock exams and once you can score 90%+ in the three categories A, B and C respectively then you are more than prepare to sit the CCNA 200-301 exam. Boson ExSim is 1:1 like the real exam so not only will you be prepared mentally for the exam but visually too since they both look the same so no surprises during the actual exam. The key with using Boson ExSim is when you get an answer wrong don't just memorise why the answer is wrong but instead at this stage use articles from Google search, textbooks and YouTube videos to understand why the answer is wrong and what the correct answer should be. Knowing the **"why"** will help you understand the topic better to ace the test. This is your career after all so learning why something should or should not work will help you to get hired also. Think student graduates that learn all theory as opposed to people that practice with labs and put theory into practice to know what and why things work the way they do. **This style of learning with Boson ExSim's practice exams through categories A, B and C is effectively the Anki method because it is basically using flashcards to tell you the right and wrong answers with explanations.**
5. After labbing, book your exam in advance so you have a goal post/deadline to work to. Booking your exam in advance will make you feel like time is running out and in turn this should push you to achieve your goals as opposed to aimlessly studying and then sitting your exam at a random time. **Planning ahead will often yield better results.**
6. Lastly, during step 4 you should also **spend 1-2 hours per day applying for jobs**. Create a GitHub profile to put all of your lab projects in. Create a LinkedIn profile to reach out to recruiters and HR at the specific companies you want to work for. Get your CV in shape -- maybe use ChatGPT to use your CV and automatically tweak it to fit the job description in your cover letter and CV. I have a goal of 10-15 targeted job applications per day and this can take me anywhere from 30mins to 2 hours per day. **Figure out a quota for the day that you can comfortably spend for applying for jobs**. If you have savings I'd even focus on applying for jobs in bigger cities or overseas too as countries like US or the capital city in your country tend to pay higher.

> **The golden rule is to study for an amount of time that you can stay fully focused for without your mind drifting. For me that is 3-4 hours using the pomodoro method with 5-15 min breaks in between sessions to break up the monotony of studying.** This works for me. Play around with it -- maybe study blocks of 15, 20 or 30 minutes could work better for you with 5-15 minute breaks in between. But, remember more study breaks make it longer to finish each day which might feel like you're moving the goal post and cause mental fatigue quicker depending on how you feel. **Just make sure you get at least 3-4 hours of pure study time per day not including breaks in between.**

**You got this !!**